human genomic human clinical report num (#13)
fhdsl/anvilPoll2024: sota24analysis.Rmd

We then also make some theme changes like rotating the x-axis tick labels and changing the y- and x- axis labels and using a minimal theme to turn off borders, and then turning off grids, etc.

```{r}
ggplot(experienceDf, aes(x=experienceLevel,y=n, fill=researchType)) + 
  facet_wrap(~UserType, nrow=2) + 
  geom_bar(stat="identity", position="dodge") + 
  theme_minimal() + 
  theme(panel.background = element_blank(), panel.grid = element_blank()) + 
  theme(axis.text.x = element_text(angle = 45, hjust=1)) + 
  geom_text(
    aes(label = n, group = researchType), 
    size=2, position = position_dodge(width = .9), vjust=-0.5
) + 
  ylab("Count") + xlab ("Reported Experience Level") +

>   coord_cartesian(clip = "off")

Reviewer: I think we can take the label off the legend (`researchType`)

We then also make some theme changes like rotating the x-axis tick labels and changing the y- and x- axis labels, expanding the left plot margin, and using a minimal theme to turn off borders, and then turning off grids, etc.

```{r}
ggplot(experienceDf, aes(x=experienceLevel,y=n, fill=experienceLevel)) + 
  facet_grid(UserType~researchType) + 
  geom_bar(stat="identity") + 
  theme_classic() + 
  theme(panel.background = element_blank(), panel.grid = element_blank()) + 
  theme(axis.text.x = element_text(angle = 45, hjust=1)) + 
  geom_text(
    aes(label = n, group = experienceLevel), vjust = -1, size=2
) + 
  ylab("Count") + xlab ("Reported Experience Level") +
  coord_cartesian(clip = "off") + 
  theme(plot.margin = margin(1,1,1,1.05, "cm")) +
  theme(legend.position = "none")
  

ggsave(here("plots/researchExperienceLevel_colorExperience.png"))
```

> We include both plots in case since we don't know which we like better, but both of these give us confidence that current and potential user counts for reported experience level in these research areas show similar distributions. So we'll go ahead and plot it without splitting out UserType.

Reviewer: thanks for including both, we can pick one we like best with the broader outreach group!

</details>

#### Preferred bar plot

<details><summary>Description of variable definitions and steps</summary>

This bar plot has the experience level on the x-axis, the count on the y-axis, and fills the bars according to the experience level (though the fill/color legend is turned off by setting legend.position to none). We facet the research category type and label the bars. We keep a summary stat and sum function and after_stat(y) for the label since the data has splits like usertype that we're not visualizing here. 

We adjust various aspects of the theme like turning off the grid and background and rotating the x-tick labels and changing the x- and y-axis labels. We also slightly widen the left axis so that the tick labels aren't cut off. 

> 

Reviewer: I might add a statement along the lines of, we didn't observe big differences between current and potential users, so we believe this grouped plot is useful for understanding the community as a whole. (e.g., explain why a no-user-type-split plot is appropriate)

The first version of the plot has trimmed limits, so the second version sets limits on the x-axis of 1 to 6 since those were the options survey respondents were given for ranking. It also adds annotations (using [Grobs, explained in this Stackoverflow post answer](https://stackoverflow.com/a/31081162)) to specify which rank was "Most important" and which was "Least important". 

> Then we've also adjusted the left margin so that the annotation isn't cutoff.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then we've also adjusted the left margin so that the annotation isn't cut off.
```
